trees considered problematic

in this essay, we explore the violence perpetuated by trees. while
many contend that trees are beneficial or at most benign, it is clear
that they have not approached this topic through the lens of critical
theory. our thesis is threefold: trees encode hierarchies of power,
they glorify violence against marginalized groups, and they allow us
to expose the pernicious nature of liberal democracy.

it is well understood how systems encode repressive ideologies. in the
case of trees, these repressive ideologies are directly encoded in the
naming of associated entities [1] and in the tree's underlying
structure. for any given node in a tree, with the exception of the
root, there exists a node which is referred to as its parent [2]. this
naming reveals a thinly veiled patriarchial hierarchy. returning to
the case of the root node, we are forced to conclude it is a variant
type representing either the christian diety or the liberal
bourgeoisie.

our next contention is that trees glorify violence against
marginalized groups. we provide an existence proof using memory
hierarchies [3]. several of the lower layers of the memory hierarchy
are referred to as the cache. progressively lower layers in the cache
provide increasingly fast access times in diminishing quantities. if
some data can be found in a given layer of the cache, it is referred
to as a cache-hit. a cache-hit is considered a good thing by almost
all versed in the study of computer science [4]. additionally, note
the widely held view that it is best to hit the lowest layer in the
cache. hitting those at the bottom of the power hierarchy is
explicitly celebrated.

our final proof is demonstrated through distributed systems. one
popular architecture is the master-worker architecture [5]. in
particular, we are concerned with what happens when the master
requires replacement. most distributed systems use a distributed
"consensus protocol", such as paxos or raft, to vote for and elect a
new master. this language is no accident: it is isomorphic to that of
liberal democracy [6]. democracy, ostensibly about electing
representitive leaders, is merely a facade for maintaining the power
of the bourgeoisie.


notes:

[1] we intentionally avoid using the problematic phrase "its
entities", as that would imply a hierarchy. while trees are
problematic, we can certainly do better with the use of our language

[2] we are forced to use the problematic posessive "its". there's the
smoke and we will shortly demonstrate the fire

[3] these are normally visualized as unary trees

[4] a field infamous for its lack of inclusivity

[5] most commonly structured as a n-ary tree of height 1

[6] [(master, borgouise), (worker, proletariat), (elect, elect),
(consensus protocol, democracy)]
